README.md, before:

# com.virtualmaker.buildalon

**[buildalon.com](https://www.buildalon.com?utm_source=plugin_readme) | [Documentation](https://www.buildalon.com/docs/?utm_source=plugin_readme)**

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/939721153688264824.svg?label=&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2)](https://discord.gg/VM9cWJ9rjH) [![openupm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/com.virtualmaker.buildalon?label=openupm&registry_uri=https://package.openupm.com)](https://openupm.com/packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon/) [![openupm](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=brightgreen&label=downloads&query=%24.downloads&suffix=%2Fmonth&url=https%3A%2F%2Fpackage.openupm.com%2Fdownloads%2Fpoint%2Flast-month%2Fcom.virtualmaker.buildalon)](https://openupm.com/packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon/) [![marketplace](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=&labelColor=505050&message=Buildalon%20Actions&color=FF1E6F&logo=github-actions&logoColor=0076D6)](https://github.com/marketplace?query=buildalon)

**Buildalon** is an end-to-end CI/CD solution designed for [Unity](https://unity.com/) developers.

This package extends Unity with command line arguments that are equivalent to the options in the Unity build window. You can use it to automate building Unity in any continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) environments. Use the [Buildalon GitHub Actions](https://buildalon.com/docs/actions?utm_source=plugin_readme) with this package to get setup build automation with clear logging and summary.

If you're new to CI/CD, you can **learn how to setup build automation in 1 minute at [buildalon.com](https://www.buildalon.com/?utm_source=plugin_readme).**

## Installing

Requires Unity 2019.4 LTS or higher.

The recommended installation method is though the unity package manager and [OpenUPM](https://openupm.com/packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon).

### Via Unity Package Manager and OpenUPM

- Open your Unity project settings
- Add the OpenUPM package registry:
  - Name: `OpenUPM`
  - URL: `https://package.openupm.com`
  - Scope(s):
    - `com.virtualmaker`

![scoped-registries](Utilities.BuildPipeline/Packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon/Documentation~/images/package-manager-scopes.png)

- Open the Unity Package Manager window
- Change the Registry from Unity to `My Registries`
- Add the `Buildalon` package

### Via Unity Package Manager and Git url

- Open your Unity Package Manager
- Add package from git url: `https://github.com/buildalon/com.virtualmaker.buildalon.git#upm`

## Documentation

### Example Usage

#### Create Github Action Workflow

- Create a new action workflow file:
  - `.github/workflows/unity-build.yml`
- Add the following content to the file:

```yml
name: unity-build
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - 'main'
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - '*'
  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:
concurrency:
  group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.ref }}
  cancel-in-progress: true
jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ${{ matrix.os }}
    strategy:
      # max-parallel: 2 # Use this if you're activating pro license with matrix
      matrix:
        os: [ubuntu-latest, windows-latest, macos-15]
        unity-version: [2019.x, 2020.x, 2021.x, 2022.x, 6000.x]
        include: # for each os specify the build targets
          - os: ubuntu-latest
            build-target: StandaloneLinux64
          - os: windows-latest
            build-target: StandaloneWindows64
          - os: macos-15
            build-target: StandaloneOSX
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

        # Installs the Unity Editor based on your project version text file
        # sets -> env.UNITY_EDITOR_PATH
        # sets -> env.UNITY_PROJECT_PATH
      - uses: buildalon/unity-setup@v1
        with:
          unity-version: ${{ matrix.unity-version }}
          build-targets: ${{ matrix.build-target }}

        # Activates the installation with the provided credentials
      - uses: buildalon/activate-unity-license@v1
        with:
          license: 'Personal' # Choose license type to use [ Personal, Professional ]
          username: ${{ secrets.UNITY_USERNAME }}
          password: ${{ secrets.UNITY_PASSWORD }}
          # serial: ${{ secrets.UNITY_SERIAL }} # Required for pro activations

      - uses: buildalon/unity-action@v1
        name: Project Validation
        with:
          log-name: 'project-validation'
          build-target: '${{ matrix.build-target }}'
          args: '-quit -batchmode -executeMethod Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.ValidateProject -importTMProEssentialsAsset'

      - uses: buildalon/unity-action@v1
        name: '${{ matrix.build-target }}-Build'
        with:
          log-name: '${{ matrix.build-target }}-Build'
          build-target: '${{ matrix.build-target }}'
          args: '-quit -batchmode -executeMethod Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.StartCommandLineBuild -export'

      - uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        id: upload-artifact
        name: 'Upload ${{ matrix.build-target }} Artifacts'
        if: success() || failure()
        with:
          compression-level: 0
          retention-days: 1
          name: '${{ github.run_number }}.${{ github.run_attempt }}-${{ matrix.os }} ${{ matrix.unity-version }} ${{ matrix.build-target }}-Artifacts'
          path: |
            ${{ github.workspace }}/**/*.log
            ${{ env.UNITY_PROJECT_PATH || github.workspace }}/Builds/${{ matrix.build-target }}/**/*
            !${{ env.UNITY_PROJECT_PATH || github.workspace }}/Library/**/*
            !/**/*_BackUpThisFolder_ButDontShipItWithYourGame/**
            !/**/*_BurstDebugInformation_DoNotShip/**
```

### Executable Methods

These methods can be executed using the `-executeMethod` command line argument to validate, sync, and build the Unity project.

| Method | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.ValidateProject` | Validates the Unity Project assets by forcing a symbolic link sync and creates solution files. |
| `Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.SyncSolution` | Force Unity to update CSProj files and generates solution. |
| `Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.StartCommandLineBuild` | Start a build using command line arguments. |

```bash
"/path/to/Unity.exe" -projectPath "/path/to/unity/project" -quit -batchmode -executeMethod Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.StartCommandLineBuild
```

#### Project Validation Command Line Arguments

> [!NOTE]
> No longer required in Unity 6+

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-importTMProEssentialsAsset` | Imports the TMPro Essential assets if they are not already in the project. |

```bash
"/path/to/Unity.exe" -projectPath "/path/to/unity/project" -quit -batchmode -executeMethod Utilities.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.ValidateProject -importTMProEssentialsAsset
```

### Additional Custom Command Line Arguments

In addition to any already defined [Unity Editor command line arguments](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/EditorCommandLineArguments.html), this plugin offers some additional options:

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-ignoreCompilerErrors` | Disables logging. |
| `-autoIncrement` | Enables auto incrementing. |
| `-versionName` | Sets the version of the application. Value must be string. |
| `-versionCode` | Sets the version code of the application. Value must be an integer. |
| `-bundleIdentifier` | Sets the bundle identifier of the application. |
| `-sceneList` | Sets the scenes of the application, list as CSV. |
| `-sceneListFile` | Sets the scenes of the application, list as JSON. |
| `-buildOutputDirectory` | Sets the output directory for the build. |
| `-acceptExternalModificationsToPlayer` | Sets the build options to accept external modifications to the player. |
| `-development` | Sets the build options to build a development build of the player. |
| `-colorSpace` | Sets the color space of the application, if the provided color space string is a valid `ColorSpace` enum value. |
| `-compressionMethod` | Set the build compression. Can be: `LZ4`, `LZ4HC` |
| `-buildConfiguration` | Sets the build configuration of the application. Can be:  `debug`, `master`, or `release`. |
| `-export` | Creates a native code project for the target platform. |
| `-symlinkSources` | Enables the use of symbolic links for the sources. |
| `-disableDebugging` | :warning: deprecated. Use `allowDebugging`. Disables the ability to attach remote debuggers to the player. |
| `-allowDebugging` | Enables or disables the ability to attache a remote debugger to the player. Can be: `true` or `false`. |
| `-dotnetApiCompatibilityLevel` | Sets the dotnet api compatibility level of the player. Can be: `NET_2_0`, `NET_2_0_Subset`, `NET_4_6`, `NET_Unity_4_8`, `NET_Web`, `NET_Micro`, `NET_Standard`, or `NET_Standard_2_0`. |
| `-scriptingBackend` | Sets the scripting framework of the player. Can be: `Mono2x`, `IL2CPP`, or `WinRTDotNET`. |
| `-autoConnectProfiler` | Start the player with a connection to the profiler. |
| `-buildWithDeepProfilingSupport` | Enables deep profiling support in the player. |
| `-il2cppCompilerConfiguration` | C++ compiler configuration used when compiling IL2CPP. Can be: `Debug`, `Release`, or `Master` |
| `-il2cppCodeGeneration` | Control code generation for IL2CPP. Can be: `OptimizeSpeed` or `OptimizeSize` |

#### Platform specific Command Line Arguments

##### Android Command Line Arguments

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-appBundle` | Builds an .abb for Google Play Store |
| `-splitBinary` | Builds an APK per CPU architecture. |
| `-splitApk` | Uses APK expansion files. |
| `-keystorePath` | Path to the keystore. |
| `-keystorePass` | Sets the keystore password. |
| `-keyaliasName` | Name of the key to use when signing. |
| `-keyaliasPass` | Sets the key alias password. |
| `-symbols` | Sets the symbol creation mode. Can be: `public`, `debugging`, or `disabled`. |

##### Apple Device Command Line Args

Works for any Apple Platform Target: MacOS, iOS, tvOS, and visionOS.

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-appleTeamId` | The team id used for signing. |
| `-enableAppleAutomaticSigning` | Enables automatic signing. |
| `-disableAppleAutomaticSigning` | Disables automatic signing. |
| `-appleProvisioningProfileId` | Sets the provisioning profile UUID. |
| `-appleProvisioningProfileType` | Sets the provisioning profile type. Can be `Automatic`, `Development`, or `Distribution`. |
| `-appleSdkVersion` | Sets the apple sdk version. Can be `Device` or `Simulator`. |

###### MacOS Command Line Arguments

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-arch` | Sets the build architecture. Can be: `x64`, `arm64`, or `x64arm64`. |

##### Windows Universal Platform Command Line Arguments

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-arch` | Sets the build architecture. Can be: `x64`, `x86`, `ARM`, or `ARM64`. |
| `-wsaUWPBuildType` | Sets the output build type when building to Universal Windows Platform. Can be: `XAML`, `D3D`, or `ExecutableOnly`. |
| `-wsaSetDeviceFamily` | Sets the device family. Can be: `Desktop`, `Mobile`, `Xbox`, `Holographic`, `Team`, `IOT`, or `IoTHeadless`. |
| `-wsaUWPSDK` | Sets the UWP SDK Version to build for. |
| `-wsaMinUWPSDK` | Sets the min UWP SDK to build for. |
| `-wsaCertificate` | Sets the signing certificate. Must pass the path and password together. `-wsaCertificate "path/to/cert.pfx" myP@55w0rd` |

Commit message:

com.utilities.buildpipeline 1.6.2 (#53)
- properly set iOS/macOS/tvOS build numbers
- added new buildNumber arg that can be used for Android and Apple platforms
  - kept versionCode for Android but can be used interchangeably for easier to build workflows
# Conflicts:
#	README.md
#	Utilities.BuildPipeline/Packages/com.utilities.buildpipeline/package.json
#	Utilities.BuildPipeline/Packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon/Documentation~/README.md

README.md, after:

# com.virtualmaker.buildalon

**[buildalon.com](https://www.buildalon.com?utm_source=plugin_readme) | [Documentation](https://www.buildalon.com/docs/?utm_source=plugin_readme)**

[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/939721153688264824.svg?label=&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2)](https://discord.gg/VM9cWJ9rjH) [![openupm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/com.virtualmaker.buildalon?label=openupm&registry_uri=https://package.openupm.com)](https://openupm.com/packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon/) [![openupm](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=brightgreen&label=downloads&query=%24.downloads&suffix=%2Fmonth&url=https%3A%2F%2Fpackage.openupm.com%2Fdownloads%2Fpoint%2Flast-month%2Fcom.virtualmaker.buildalon)](https://openupm.com/packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon/) [![marketplace](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=&labelColor=505050&message=Buildalon%20Actions&color=FF1E6F&logo=github-actions&logoColor=0076D6)](https://github.com/marketplace?query=buildalon)

**Buildalon** is an end-to-end CI/CD solution designed for [Unity](https://unity.com/) developers.

This package extends Unity with command line arguments that are equivalent to the options in the Unity build window. You can use it to automate building Unity in any continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) environments. Use the [Buildalon GitHub Actions](https://buildalon.com/docs/actions?utm_source=plugin_readme) with this package to get setup build automation with clear logging and summary.

If you're new to CI/CD, you can **learn how to setup build automation in 1 minute at [buildalon.com](https://www.buildalon.com/?utm_source=plugin_readme).**

## Installing

Requires Unity 2019.4 LTS or higher.

The recommended installation method is though the unity package manager and [OpenUPM](https://openupm.com/packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon).

### Via Unity Package Manager and OpenUPM

#### Terminal

```bash
openupm add com.virtualmaker.buildalon
```

#### Manual

- Open your Unity project settings
- Add the OpenUPM package registry:
  - Name: `OpenUPM`
  - URL: `https://package.openupm.com`
  - Scope(s):
    - `com.virtualmaker`

![scoped-registries](Utilities.BuildPipeline/Packages/com.virtualmaker.buildalon/Documentation~/images/package-manager-scopes.png)

- Open the Unity Package Manager window
- Change the Registry from Unity to `My Registries`
- Add the `Buildalon` package

### Via Unity Package Manager and Git url

- Open your Unity Package Manager
- Add package from git url: `https://github.com/buildalon/com.virtualmaker.buildalon.git#upm`

## Documentation

### Example Usage

#### Create Github Action Workflow

- Create a new action workflow file:
  - `.github/workflows/unity-build.yml`
- Add the following content to the file:

```yml
name: unity-build
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - 'main'
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - '*'
  # Allows you to run this workflow manually from the Actions tab
  workflow_dispatch:
concurrency:
  group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.ref }}
  cancel-in-progress: true
jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ${{ matrix.os }}
    strategy:
      # max-parallel: 2 # Use this if you're activating pro license with matrix
      matrix:
        os: [ubuntu-latest, windows-latest, macos-latest]
        unity-versions: [2019.x, 2020.x, 2021.x, 2022.x, 6000.x]
        include: # for each os specify the build targets
          - os: ubuntu-latest
            build-target: StandaloneLinux64
          - os: windows-latest
            build-target: StandaloneWindows64
          - os: macos-latest
            build-target: StandaloneOSX
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

        # Installs the Unity Editor based on your project version text file
        # sets -> env.UNITY_EDITOR_PATH
        # sets -> env.UNITY_PROJECT_PATH
      - uses: buildalon/unity-setup@v1
        with:
          unity-version: ${{ matrix.unity-versions }}
          build-targets: ${{ matrix.build-target }}

        # Activates the installation with the provided credentials
      - uses: buildalon/activate-unity-license@v1
        with:
          license: 'Personal' # Choose license type to use [ Personal, Professional ]
          username: ${{ secrets.UNITY_USERNAME }}
          password: ${{ secrets.UNITY_PASSWORD }}
          # serial: ${{ secrets.UNITY_SERIAL }} # Required for pro activations

      - uses: buildalon/unity-action@v1
        name: Project Validation
        with:
          log-name: 'project-validation'
          build-target: '${{ matrix.build-target }}'
          args: '-quit -batchmode -executeMethod Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.ValidateProject -importTMProEssentialsAsset'

      - uses: buildalon/unity-action@v1
        name: '${{ matrix.build-target }}-Build'
        with:
          log-name: '${{ matrix.build-target }}-Build'
          build-target: '${{ matrix.build-target }}'
          args: '-quit -batchmode -executeMethod Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.StartCommandLineBuild -export'

      - uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        id: upload-artifact
        name: 'Upload ${{ matrix.build-target }} Artifacts'
        if: success() || failure()
        with:
          compression-level: 0
          retention-days: 1
          name: '${{ github.run_number }}.${{ github.run_attempt }}-${{ matrix.os }} ${{ matrix.unity-version }} ${{ matrix.build-target }}-Artifacts'
          path: |
            ${{ github.workspace }}/**/*.log
            ${{ env.UNITY_PROJECT_PATH || github.workspace }}/Builds/${{ matrix.build-target }}/**/*
            !${{ env.UNITY_PROJECT_PATH || github.workspace }}/Library/**/*
            !/**/*_BackUpThisFolder_ButDontShipItWithYourGame/**
            !/**/*_BurstDebugInformation_DoNotShip/**
```

### Executable Methods

These methods can be executed using the `-executeMethod` command line argument to validate, sync, and build the Unity project.

| Method | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.ValidateProject` | Validates the Unity Project assets by forcing a symbolic link sync and creates solution files. |
| `Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.SyncSolution` | Force Unity to update CSProj files and generates solution. |
| `Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.StartCommandLineBuild` | Start a build using command line arguments. |

```bash
"/path/to/Unity.exe" -projectPath "/path/to/unity/project" -quit -batchmode -executeMethod Buildalon.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.StartCommandLineBuild
```

#### Project Validation Command Line Arguments

> [!NOTE]
> No longer required in Unity 6+

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-importTMProEssentialsAsset` | Imports the TMPro Essential assets if they are not already in the project. |

```bash
"/path/to/Unity.exe" -projectPath "/path/to/unity/project" -quit -batchmode -executeMethod Utilities.Editor.BuildPipeline.UnityPlayerBuildTools.ValidateProject -importTMProEssentialsAsset
```

### Additional Custom Command Line Arguments

In addition to any already defined [Unity Editor command line arguments](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/EditorCommandLineArguments.html), this plugin offers some additional options:

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-ignoreCompilerErrors` | Disables logging. |
| `-autoIncrement` | Enables auto incrementing. |
| `-versionName` | Sets the version of the application. Value must be string. |
| `-buildNumber` | Sets the version build number of the application. (For Android, this must be an integer.) |
| `-bundleIdentifier` | Sets the bundle identifier of the application. |
| `-sceneList` | Sets the scenes of the application, list as CSV. |
| `-sceneListFile` | Sets the scenes of the application, list as JSON. |
| `-buildOutputDirectory` | Sets the output directory for the build. |
| `-acceptExternalModificationsToPlayer` | Sets the build options to accept external modifications to the player. |
| `-development` | Sets the build options to build a development build of the player. |
| `-colorSpace` | Sets the color space of the application, if the provided color space string is a valid `ColorSpace` enum value. |
| `-compressionMethod` | Set the build compression. Can be: `LZ4`, `LZ4HC` |
| `-buildConfiguration` | Sets the build configuration of the application. Can be:  `debug`, `master`, or `release`. |
| `-export` | Creates a native code project for the target platform. |
| `-symlinkSources` | Enables the use of symbolic links for the sources. |
| `-disableDebugging` | :warning: deprecated. Use `allowDebugging`. Disables the ability to attach remote debuggers to the player. |
| `-allowDebugging` | Enables or disables the ability to attache a remote debugger to the player. Can be: `true` or `false`. |
| `-dotnetApiCompatibilityLevel` | Sets the dotnet api compatibility level of the player. Can be: `NET_2_0`, `NET_2_0_Subset`, `NET_4_6`, `NET_Unity_4_8`, `NET_Web`, `NET_Micro`, `NET_Standard`, or `NET_Standard_2_0`. |
| `-scriptingBackend` | Sets the scripting framework of the player. Can be: `Mono2x`, `IL2CPP`, or `WinRTDotNET`. |
| `-autoConnectProfiler` | Start the player with a connection to the profiler. |
| `-buildWithDeepProfilingSupport` | Enables deep profiling support in the player. |
| `-il2cppCompilerConfiguration` | C++ compiler configuration used when compiling IL2CPP. Can be: `Debug`, `Release`, or `Master` |
| `-il2cppCodeGeneration` | Control code generation for IL2CPP. Can be: `OptimizeSpeed` or `OptimizeSize` |

#### Platform specific Command Line Arguments

##### Android Command Line Arguments

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-appBundle` | Builds an .abb for Google Play Store |
| `-splitBinary` | Builds an APK per CPU architecture. |
| `-splitApk` | Uses APK expansion files. |
| `-keystorePath` | Path to the keystore. |
| `-keystorePass` | Sets the keystore password. |
| `-keyaliasName` | Name of the key to use when signing. |
| `-keyaliasPass` | Sets the key alias password. |
| `-symbols` | Sets the symbol creation mode. Can be: `public`, `debugging`, or `disabled`. |
| `-versionCode` | Sets the version code of the application. Must be an integer. ***Deprecated, use `versionNumber` instead*** |

##### Apple Device Command Line Args

Works for any Apple Platform Target: MacOS, iOS, tvOS, and visionOS.

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-appleTeamId` | The team id used for signing. |
| `-enableAppleAutomaticSigning` | Enables automatic signing. |
| `-disableAppleAutomaticSigning` | Disables automatic signing. |
| `-appleProvisioningProfileId` | Sets the provisioning profile UUID. |
| `-appleProvisioningProfileType` | Sets the provisioning profile type. Can be `Automatic`, `Development`, or `Distribution`. |
| `-appleSdkVersion` | Sets the apple sdk version. Can be `Device` or `Simulator`. |

###### MacOS Command Line Arguments

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-arch` | Sets the build architecture. Can be: `x64`, `arm64`, or `x64arm64`. |

##### Windows Universal Platform Command Line Arguments

| Argument | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| `-arch` | Sets the build architecture. Can be: `x64`, `x86`, `ARM`, or `ARM64`. |
| `-wsaUWPBuildType` | Sets the output build type when building to Universal Windows Platform. Can be: `XAML`, `D3D`, or `ExecutableOnly`. |
| `-wsaSetDeviceFamily` | Sets the device family. Can be: `Desktop`, `Mobile`, `Xbox`, `Holographic`, `Team`, `IOT`, or `IoTHeadless`. |
| `-wsaUWPSDK` | Sets the UWP SDK Version to build for. |
| `-wsaMinUWPSDK` | Sets the min UWP SDK to build for. |
| `-wsaCertificate` | Sets the signing certificate. Must pass the path and password together. `-wsaCertificate "path/to/cert.pfx" myP@55w0rd` |
